we've uh now almost completed our
journey this will be
it for talking about uh several kinds of
learning the venerable kind that's the
nearest neighbors and decision tree or
identification tree types of learning
still useful still the right thing to do
if there's no reason not to do the
simple thing then we have the
biologically inspired uh approaches
neural nets all kinds of problems with
local Maxima and overfitting and
oscillation if you get the rate constant
too
big I don't
know genetic
algorithms like neural Nets uh both are
very naive in the in their attempt to
mimic nature so maybe they work on a
class of problems they surely do each
have a class of problems which they're
good but as a general purpose First
Resort don't recommend it but now the
theorists have come out and done some
things that are very
remarkable and in the end you have to
say wow these are so such powerful ideas
I wonder if I wonder if Nature has
discovered them too is there good
Engineering in the brain based on good
science or given the nature of evolution
is it just random junk that uh isn't the
best way for doing anything who knows
but today we're going to talk about an
idea I'll bet is in there somewhere
because it's easy to implement it's
extremely powerful in what it does and
it's the um essential item in anybody's
repertoire of learning
mechanisms it's also a mechanism which
if
you understand only by formula uh you
will never be able to work the problems
on the quiz that's for sure because on
the surface it looks like it'd be very
comp complicated to simulate this
approach but once you uh understand how
it works and look at a little bit of the
math and let it sing songs to you it
turns out to be extremely
easy so it's about um it's about letting
um multiple methods work in your behalf
so far we've been talking about using
just one method to do something and what
we're going to do now is going to look
look to see if a crowd can be smarter
than the participants and the than the
the individuals in the
crowd but before we get too far down
that abstract path let me just say that
the whole works has to do with
classification and binary
classification you know am I holding a a
piece of chalk in my hand or a hand
grenade uh is that a cup of coffee or
tea those are binary classification
problems and so we're going to be
talking today strictly about binary
classification we're not going to be
talking about finding the right letter
in the AL alphabet uh that's written on
the page that's a 26 way choice we're
talking about binary
choices so we have uh we assume that
there's a set of classifiers that we can
draw on uh here's one
H and it produces either a minus one or
a plus
one so that's how the classification is
done if it's coffee plus one if it's T
minus one if it's chalk plus one if it's
a hang grenade minus one so that's how
the classification
works now uh too bad for us uh normally
the world doesn't give us very good
classifiers so if we look at the error
rate of this classifier or any other
classifier that error rate will
range from zero to one in terms of the
fraction of the uh fraction of the cases
got wrong on a sample
set so you'd like your error rate to be
way down down
here uh you're dead if it's over there
but what about in the middle what if
it's
a right there just a little bit better
than CLP flipping a coin if it's just a
little bit better than flipping a coin
that's a weak
classifier and the question is can you
make a classifier that's way over here
like there a strong
classifier
by
combining several of these weak
classifiers and letting them
vote so how would you do that you might
say well let us make a big classifier
Capital H that works on some sample X
and as its
output produces something that depends
on the sum of the outputs of the
individual
classifiers so we have
H1 working on
X we have
H2 working on X and we have
H3 also working on X say three of them
just to start us off and now let's add
those guys
up and take the sign
of the
output so if two out of the three of
those guys
agree then we'll get an either plus one
or minus one if all three agree we'll
get plus one or minus one because we're
just taking the sign outp put we're just
taking the sign of the of the sum of
these
guys so this means that uh one guy can
be wrong as long as the other two guys
are right but I think it's easier to see
see how this all works if you think of
some space of of
samples and you say well let's let that
area here be where H1
wrong and this area over
here is where H2 is
wrong and then this over area over here
is where H3 is wrong
so if the situation is like that then
this formula always gives you the right
answers on the samples I'm going to stop
saying that right now because I want it
to be kind of a background thing on the
sample set we're talking about wrapping
this stuff over the sample set later on
we'll ask okay given that you trained
this thing on a sample set how well does
it do on some new examples because we
want to ask ourselves about overfitting
questions but for now we just want to
look and see if we believe that this
Arrangement where each of these guys
each of these hes is producing plus one
or minus one we're adding them up and
taking the sign is that going to give us
a better result than the than the test
individually and if they if they look
like this when draped over a sample set
then it's clear that we're going to get
the right answer every time because
there's no area here where any two of
those tests are giving us the wrong
answer so the two that are getting the
right answer
in this little circle here for H1 these
other two are getting the right answer
so I'll vote it and you'll get the right
answer every
time but I don't know it couldn't
doesn't have to be that
simple it could look like
this there could
be a situation where this is H1 wrong
answer this is
H2 wrong answer and this is
H3 wrong
answer and now the situation gets a
little bit more
murky because we have to ask
ourselves uh
whether that area where two out of the
three or three out of the three get it
wrong uh is sufficiently
Big so as to
be worse than one of the individual
tests so if you look at that V diagram
and stare at it long enough and try some
things you can say well there is no case
where this will give a worse answer or
you might end up with a
conclusion that there are
cases of where we can arrange those
circles such that the voting scheme will
give an answer that's worse than an
individual test but I'm not going to
tell you the answer because I think
we'll make that a quiz
question so good idea yeah okay so I'll
make that a quiz
question so that looks like a a a good
idea and we can
um we can sort of construct a little
algorithm that will help us pick the
pick the particular weak classifiers to
plug in here we got a whole bag of
classifiers we got H1 we got H2 we got
h55 we got a lot of them we can choose
from so what we're going to do is we're
going to use the data
un Disturbed to produce
H1 we're just going to try all the tests
on the data and see which one gives us
the smallest error rate and that's a
good guy so we're going to use
that then we're going to use the
data with the with an
exaggeration of a H1
errors in other words this is a this is
a critical idea what we're going to do
is we're going to we're we're going to
run this algorithm again but instead of
just looking at the number of number of
samples that are got wrong what we're
going to do is we're going to look at
the we're going to look at a a a
distorted a distorted set of samples
where the ones we're not doing well on
has an exaggerated effect on the
result so we're going to weight them
or multiply them or do something so
we're going to pay more attention to the
samples on which H1 produces an error
and that's going to give us
H2 and then we're going to do it one
more time because we got three things to
go with here in this particular little
uh exploratory scheme this time we're
going to have an exaggeration
of those samples which samples are we
going to exaggerate
now we're going to exaggerate we're
going to look for the ones where oh we
might as well look for the ones where H1
gives us a different answer from H2
because we want to be on the good guy
side so we can say we're going to we're
going to
exaggerate those samples for which H1
gives us a different result from
H2 that's going to give us
H3 all right so so we can think of this
this whole works here as part one of a
multi-part
idea so uh let's see I don't know what
might be step two well this is a good
idea then what we've
got we can easily derive from that is a
little tree look like this and we can
say that h of X depends on
H1 H2 and
H3 uh but now if that that's a good
idea and that gives us a better answer
than any of the individual tests maybe
we can make this idea a little bit
recursive and say well maybe H1 is
actually not an atomic test but maybe
it's the vote of three other tests
so we can make a little tree structure
it looks like this so this is
h11 h12
h13 and three here and then this will be
h31
h32
h33 and so that's a sort of get out the
vote
idea or we're we're trying to get a
whole bunch of of individual test into
the
act so the reason this I I guess the
reason this wasn't discovered until
about 10 years ago was because you got
to get so many of these ducks all lined
up before the idea uh gets through that
long filter of
ideas so that's uh only idea number two
of quite a
few well the next thing we might think
uh is well we keep talking about these
classifiers what kind of classifiers are
we talking about
uh I've got uh oh shoot I've spent my
last nickel I don't have a a quaint to
flip but that's that's one class fire
right uh the trouble with that
classifier is it's a it's a not a weak
classifier because it gives me a 50/50
chance of being right I guess I guess
there are conditions in which a a coin
flip is better than a is a weak
classifier if if the two outcomes are
not equally probable then a coin flip is
a perfectly good weak
classifier but I don't know what we're
going to do is we're going to think in
terms
of a different a different set of
classifiers and we're going to call
them decision
tree well you remember decision trees
right but we're not going to build
decision trees we're going to use
decision
tree decision tree
stumps so if we have a two-dimensional
space that looks like
this then a decision tree stump is a
single test it's not a complete tree
that will divide up the samples into
homogeneous groups it's just what you
can do with one
test so each each possible test is a
classifier how many tests do we get out
of that
12 right yeah it doesn't look like 12 to
me either but here's how you get to
12 uh one uh decision tree test you can
stick in there would be that test right
there and that's that would be a
complete decision tree
stump but of course you could also put
in this
one that would be another decision free
stump now for this one on the right I
could say everything on the right is a
minus or or I could say everything on
the right is a
plus it happen to be wrong but it's a
valid it's a valid test with a valid
outcome so that's how we double the
number of tests that we have lines
for and you know what we can even have a
kind of test out here that says that
everything is Plus or everything is
wrong so for each
Dimension the number of decision tree
stumps is the number of lines I can put
in times two then I got two Dimensions
here that's how I got the 12 so there
are three
lines I can have the pluses on either
the left or the right side so that's six
and then I got two Dimensions so that
gives me 12 so that's the decision tree
stump idea and here are the other
decision tree
boundaries we obviously just like
that all right so that's one way you can
generate tests a batch of tests to try
out
uh with this uh with this idea of using
a lot of tests to help you get the job
done can you also have a decision Tree
on the right side or is that well you
don't need the question is can you also
have a a test on on the right side see
this is this is just a stand in for
saying everything's Plus or everything's
minus so it doesn't matter where you put
the line we on the right side or the
left side the bottom or the top or you
don't have to put the line anywhere it's
just an extra test in addition to ones
you put between the
samples so does uh this whole idea of
boosting the idea the main idea of the
day does it depend on using decision
tree stumps answer is
no do not be confused you can use
boosting with any kind of
classifier so why do I use decision tree
stumps today because it makes my life
easy we can look at it we can see what
it's doing but we could put a neural
neural bunch of neural Nets in there
we could put a bunch of real decision
trees in there we could put a I don't
know bunch of nearest neighbor things in
there the boosting idea doesn't care I
just use these decision tree stumps
because I and everybody else use them
for
illustration all right so that's we're
making
progress now what's the error rate for
any of these uh of line any of these
tests and lines we
drew
well I guess it will be be the
sum the error rate is equal to the sum
of uh 1 / n that's the total number of
points number of
samples uh summed over the cases where
we are
wrong all
right so oh gee you know we're going to
kind of work on combining some of these
ideas and we get this notion of
exaggeration
at some stage in what we're doing here
we're going to want to have be able to
exaggerate the effect of some errors
relative to other
errors so one one thing we can do is we
can we can assume or we can stipulate or
we can assert that each of these samples
has a weight associated with it that's
W1 this is W2 and that's
W3 and in the beginning there's no
reason to suppose that any one of these
is more or less important than any of
the other so in the beginning W sub I at
time Step 1 is equal to 1/
n so the error is just adding up the
number of samples that were got wrong
and that will be the fraction of samples
that uh you didn't get right and that
will be the error rate so what we don't
what we want to do is we want to say
instead of using this as the error rate
for all time what we want to do is we
want to move that over and say that the
error rate is equal to the sum over the
things you got wrong in the current step
times the weights of those that got were
got wrong so in Step One everything's
got the same weight doesn't matter but
if we find a way to change the weights
going
Downstream so as to for example highly
exaggerate that third sample then W3
will go up relative to W1 and
W2 but one thing we want to be sure of
is is no matter how we adjust the
weights that the sum of the weights over
the whole Space is equal to
one so in other words we want to choose
the weights so that they emphasize some
of the samples but we also want to put a
constraint on the weights such that all
of them added together is Su to one and
we'll say that that enforces a
distribution distribution is a sum is a
set of Weights that sum to
one well that's that's just a that's
just a nice idea so we're making a
little progress we we've got this idea
that we can add some plus minus one
classifiers together to get a better
classifier uh we got some idea about how
to do
that occurs to us that maybe we want to
get a lot of classifiers into the ACT
somehow or
another and maybe we want to uh just
think about using decision tree stumps
so as to kind of ground our thinking
about all this
stuff so next step is to say
well how
actually should we combine this
stuff and you will find in the
literature libraries full of papers that
do stuff like that and that was a
state-ofthe-art for quite a few years
but then people began to say well maybe
we can build up this classifier H
ofx uh in multiple steps and get a lot
of classifiers into the
act so maybe we can say that the
classifier is the
sign the
sign
of
H you know that's the one we pick first
that's the classifier we pick first
that's a that's looking at samples and
and then we got
H2 and then we got
H3 and then we got how many other other
classifiers we might
want or how many classifiers we might
need in order to correctly classify
everything in our sample
set so people began to think about
whether there might be a way of an
algorithm that would develop a
classifier that way one step at a time
that's why I put
that that's why I put that step step
number in the exponent because we're
picking this one at first then we're
expanding it to have two and then we're
expanding it to have three and so on and
each of those individual classifiers are
separately looking at the
sample but of course uh it would be
natural to suppose that just adding
things up wouldn't be enough and it's
not so it isn't too hard to invent the
next idea which is to modify this thing
just a little bit by doing what
it looks almost like a scoring
polinomial doesn't
it so what would we do to tart this up a
little
bit come again do
what somewhere out there someone's
murmuring add weights excellent good
idea so what we're going to do is we're
going to have Alphas this associated
with each of these
classifiers I'm going to determine if
somebody can build that kind of
formula to do the
job so maybe I to modify this Goldstar
idea before I get too far
Downstream and we're going to
say we're not going to treat everybody
in a crowd equally we're going to wait
some of the opinions more than others
and by the way they're all going to make
errors in different part of the
space so maybe it's not the wisdom of
even a weighted crowd but a
crowd of
experts Each of which is good at
different parts of the
space so anyhow we got this this formula
and there are a few things that um one
can say sort of sort of turn out and and
but but first let's let's write down s a
sort of algorithm for what this ought to
look like before I run out of space I
think I'll exploit the right hand board
here put the uh overall algorithm right
here so we're going to start
out by letting the weights at all of the
weights at time
one be equal to 1/ n that's just uh
saying that they're all equal in the
beginning and they're equal to n and n
is the number of
samples and then when I got
that I want to compute
Alpha
somehow now let's see no I don't want to
do that I want to pick a I want to pick
a a test I want to pick a
classifier that minimizes the error rate
minimizes error at time T and that's
going to be at time T and we're going to
come back in here that's why we put a
time or step index in
there so once we've
picked a classifier that produces an
error rate then we can use the error
rate
to determine the alpha so I want want
the alpha over
here that'll be sort of a byproduct of
picking that test and then with all that
stuff in hand maybe that will be enough
to calculate uh WT + one
so we're going to use that classifier
that we just picked to get some revised
weights and then we're going to go
around that Loop until this classifier
produces a perfect set of conclusions on
all the sample
data so that's going to be our overall
strategy so maybe we've got if we're
going to number these things that's the
fourth big idea and this uh this
Arrangement here is the fifth big idea
but then we got the sixth big idea and
the sixth big idea says
this
suppose that the weight on the I
sample at time t + 1 is equal
to the weight at time T of that same on
that same sample divided by some
normalizing
Factor time
e to the
minus
Alpha at time
T times
H uh at uh uh at
uh time T times some function y which is
a function of
X but not a function of time and you say
where did this come from and the answer
is it did not spring from the heart of a
mathematician in the first 10 minutes
that they looked at this problem in fact
when I asked Shiri how how this worked
he said well he was thinking about this
on the couch every Saturday for about a
year and his wife was getting pretty
sore but he finally found it and saved
their
marriage so where does stuff like this
come from really it comes from a knowing
a lot of mathematics and seeing a lot of
situations and knowing that something
like this might be
mathematically
convenient something like this might be
convenience but we got to let it see we
got to back up and let it sync to us uh
what's why oh we saw y last time in
support Vector machines that's just a
function that's plus one or minus one
depending on whether the output ought to
be plus one or minus
one
so if this guy
uh is giving the correct answer and the
correct answer is
plus then this guy will be plus one too
because it's it always gives you the
correct answer so in that case where
this guy is giving you the right answer
these will have the same sign so that
will be a plus one combination on the
other hand if that guy's giving the
wrong answer you're going to get a minus
one out of that
combination so it's true even if the
right answer should be minus right so if
the right answer should be minus and
this is Plus then this will be minus one
and the whole combination will give you
minus one again in other words the the Y
just flips the sign if you got the wrong
answer no matter whether the wrong
answer is plus one or minus
one these Alphas shoot those are the
same Alphas that are in this formula up
here
somehow and then that that Z what's that
for well if you just look at the
previous weights and this exponential
function uh to produce these W's for the
Next
Generation that's not going to be a
distribution because they won't sum up
to one so what this thing here this Z is
that's a sort of
normalizer and that makes uh that makes
that whole combination of of new weights
add up to
one so it's whatever you got
by adding up all of those guys and and
then dividing by that
number
well I don't know uh now there's some it
turns out
that uh we're going to do or rather
we're going to imagine that somebody's
done the same sort of thing we did to
support Vector machines we're going to
find a way to minimize the error and
we're going to minimize is the error
produced by that whole thing up there in
four we're going to minimize the error
of that entire expression as we go
along and what we what we discover when
we do the appropriate differentiations
and stuff you know that's what we do in
calculus what we discover is that we get
minimum
error for whole thing
if
Alpha is equal to
1 minus the error rate at time
T divided by the error rate at time T
but let's take the logarithm of that and
multiply by a half and that's what Sheri
was struggling to
find but I haven't quite got it right
and so let me add this in separate
chocks so we don't get confused about
this it's a
bound on that expression up there it's a
bound on the error rate produced by that
expression so interestingly enough this
means
that this means that the error rate can
actually go up as you move as you add
terms to this formula all you know is
that the error rate is going to be
bounded by an exponentially decaying
function so it's eventually
guaranteed to uh Converge on zero so
it's a minimal error bound that turns
out to be
exponential well there it
is we're done would you like to see a
demonstration yeah okay because you know
you look at that and you say well how
can anything like that possibly work and
the answer is uh surprisingly enough
here's what happens
there's a simple little
example so that's the first test
chosen the greens are pluses and the
reds are minuses so it's still like it's
still got a it's still got an
error still got an error boom there in
uh two steps it now has we can look in
the upper right hand corner we see it's
used three
classifiers and we see that one of those
classifiers says that everybody belongs
to a particular class three different
weights and the error rate has converged
to
zero so look at let's look at a couple
of other ones here's a the one I use for
debugging this thing let that run see
how fast it is Boom it converges to
getting all the samples right very
fast here's another one oh this we this
is one we gave on the exam a few years
back first test oh I let it run so it
got everything instantaneously right
let's take that through step at a time
there's the first one second one still
got a lot of errors
the rare rate's
dropping then it flattened flattened
then it goes to zero cool don't you
think but you say to me well who cares
about that stuff let's try something
more interesting there's
one oh that was pretty fast too well
there not too many samples here so I
don't know we can try
this so there's an array of pluses and
minuses boom you can see how that air
rate is kind of bounded by an
exponential
so in a in a bottom graph you've got um
the um the number of classifiers
involved and that goes up to a total
eventually of
10 you can uh sort of see how uh
positive or negative each of the
classifiers is added is by looking at
this particular Tab and this just shows
how they evolve over time but the
progress thing here is the most
interesting and now you say to me
well uh how did the machine do that and
it's all right
here we
um use an alpha that looks like this and
that allows us to compute the new
weights uh as soon as we got a
preliminary calculation we got to find a
z that does the normalization and we
sure better bring our calculator because
uh We've Got U first of all to calculate
the error rate then we got to take its
logarithm divide by two plug it into
that uh formula take the exponent and
then that gives us the new weight and
that's how the program works and if you
try that I guarantee you will flunk the
exam now I don't care about my my
computer I really don't it it's a slave
and it can calculate these logarithms
and exponentials till it turns blue and
I don't care because I've got four cores
or something and who cares might as well
do this and sit around just burning up
heat but you don't want to do that so
what you want to do is you want to you
want to know how to do this sort of
thing um more expeditiously so we're
going to have to let them the math kind
of sing to us a little bit with a view
toward uh finding a better ways of doing
this sort of
thing so let's let's do that and we're
going to run out of space here before
long so let me let me reclaim as much of
this board as I
can so what I'm going to do is I'm going
to say well now that we've got this
formula for
Alpha that relates Alpha t to the error
then I can plug that into uh this
formula up here at number six and what
I'll get is that the weight at t +
1 is equal
to the weight at T divided by that
normalizing
factor
multiplied times
something that depends on whether it's
categorized correctly or not that's what
that Y is in there for right
so we got a logarithm here and we got a
sign flipper up there in terms of that h
of X and and Y
combination so if the
sign of uh that whole thing that minus
Alpha uh and that y h combination turns
out to be negative then we're going to
have
to flip the numerator and denominator
here logarithm right and oh by the way
since we got a half out here that turns
out to be the square root of that term
inside the logarithm
right so when we carefully do that what
we discover is that it depends on
whether it's the right thing or not but
what it turns out to be is something
like a multiplier of the square
root uh better be careful
here square root of what
well let's see but we have to be careful
so let's suppose that this is for things
that we get
correct so if it's if we get it correct
then we're going to get the same sign
out of H of X and Y we've got a minus
sign out there so we're going to flip
the flip the numerator and
denominator so we're going to get the
square root of
e of T over 1 minus Epsilon of T if it's
correct if it's wrong it'll just be the
flip of
that so it'll be the square root of 1
minus the error rate over the error
rate everybody with me on that I think
that's right if it's uh if it's wrong um
I'll have to hang myself and wear a
paper bag over my head like I did last
last year but let's see if we can make
this go right correctly this
[Music]
time so
now uh we've got uh this guy
here uh we've got everything plugged in
all right uh and we know that uh now
this Z ought to be selected so that it's
equal to the sum of this guy multipli by
these things as appropriate for whether
it's correct or not
because we want in the end for all of
these W W's to add up to one so let's
see what they add up to with without the
Z
there
so what we know is that they must be it
must be the case that if we add over the
correct
ones we get the square
root of the eror rate over one minus the
error rate of the W uh t +
one uh WT
sorry plus now we got the sum of 1 minus
the air rate over the a rate times the
sum of the w i at time t for
wrong so that's the that's the that's
what we get if we added all these up
without the
Z so since everything has to add up to
one then Z ought to be equal to this
sum
right that looks pretty horrible until
we realize that if we add these guys up
over the weights that are wrong that is
the error rate that this is this is e
so therefore Z is equal
to uh the square root of the error rate
Time 1 minus the error rate that's the
contribution of this
term now let's see what is the what is
the sum of the weights over the ones
that are
correct well that that must
be one minus the error rate ah so this
thing gives you the same term the same
the same result as this one so Z is
equal to 2 *
that and that's a good
thing now we are getting somewhere
because now it becomes a little bit
easier to write some things
down oh we're way past this so let's
let's get rid of
this and now we can put some things
together together let me point out what
I'm putting
together I've got an expression for
Z right
here and I got an expression for the new
W's here so let's put those together and
say
that W of
t + 1 is equal to W of
T I guess we're going to divide that by
two and then we got
this square
root times that
expression so if we take that correct
one and and and divide by that one then
the the E sub T cancel out and I get 1
over 1 minus the r
rate that's if it's correct
and if it's not correct then it's WT
over2 working through the math one over
Epsilon if
wrong do we feel like we're making any
progress no we don't because we're not
we haven't let it say to us enough yet
so I I I I want to draw your attention
to what amateur Rock what happens to
amateur rock climbers when they're sort
of halfway up a difficult
Cliff uh they they're usually belayed
sometimes they're not if they're not
they're scared to
death and every once in a while they're
as they're just about to fall they find
some little tiny hole to stick a
fingernail in and that keeps them from
falling that's called a thank God
hole so what I'm about to introduce is
the analog of those little places where
you can stick your fingernail in it's
the thank God hole for dealing with
boosting problems all
right so what happens if I add all these
wi
up for the uh ones that the uh
classifier produces a correct answer
on well it'll be 1 / 2 1 1 - Epsilon
times the sum of the W
subt for which the answer was
correct what's this
sum oh my got
it's one minus
Epsilon so what what I've just
discovered is that if I sum the new
W's over the
correct those samples for which I got a
correct answer is equal
to2 and guess what that means that if I
sum them over
wrong it's equal to 1/2 as
well so that means that I take all of
the weights for which I got the right
answer with the previous
test and now and there those weights
will add up to something and it get the
weights for the Next Generation all I
have to do is scale them so that they
equal half this was not noticed by the
people who develop this stuff this was
noticed
by Luis Ortiz who was a 6034 instructor
a few years
ago the sum of those
weights is going to be a scaled version
of what they were
before so you take all the weights for
which this new classifier this one you
selected to give you the minimum weight
on the reweighted stuff you take the
ones that it gives a correct answer for
and you take all those weights and you
just scale them so they add up to a half
so do you have to compute any logarithms
no do you have to compute any
exponentials no do you have to calculate
Z no do you have to calculate Alpha to
get the new weights no all you have to
do is scale them that's a pretty good
thank God
hole so that's thank God hold number
one now for thank God hold number
two we need to go back and think about
the fact that we're going to give you
problems and all probability that
involve decision tree stumps and there
are a lot of decision tree stumps that
you might have to pick
from so we need to thank God whole for
deciding how to deal with
that oh where can I find some room how
about right
here suppose you got a space that looks
like this
I'm just making this up at
random so how many let's see 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 how many tests do I have to
consider in that
Dimension
11 it's one plus the number of
samples that would be
horrible I don't know do I have to
actually calculate this
one how could that possibly be better
than that
one it's got one more thing
wrong so this
one that one that one makes
sense the other one doesn't make
sense
so in the end no test that lies between
two correctly classified samples will
ever be any good so that one's a good
guy and that one's a good guy and this
one's a bad guy bad guy bad guy bad guy
bad guy bad guy bad guy bad guy so the
actual number of tests you've got is
three and likewise in the other
dimension well I haven't drawn it so
well here but can this test be a good
one no that one no cuz you actually I
better look over here on the right and
see what I've got before I draw too many
conclusions let's leave it with this
since I don't want to think too hard
about what's going on in the other
dimension but the idea is that very few
of those tests actually
matter now you say to me there's one
last thing what about
overfitting because all this does is
drape a solution over the samples and
like you know support Vector machines
overfit neural Nets overfit decision
identification trees overfit guess what
this doesn't seem to
overfit that's an exp experimental
result uh for which the literature is
confused with respect to providing an
explanation so this stuff is tryed on
all sorts of problems like handwriting
recognition uh understanding speech all
sorts of stuff used as boosting and
unlike other methods for some reason as
yet imperfectly understood it doesn't
seem to
overfit but in the end leaving no stone
unturned at
6034 every time we do this we do some
additional experiments so here's a a
example that I'll leave you with here's
a situation in which we have a
10-dimensional
space we've uh made a fake distribution
and then we put in that boxed outlier
that was just put into the space at
random so it can be viewed as an error
point so now what we're going to do is
we're going to see uh what happens when
we run that guy and sure enough in 13
steps in 17 steps it finds a
solution but maybe it's over fifth that
little guy who's in
error well one thing you can do is you
can say well uh all of these classifiers
are dividing this space up into chunks
and we can compute the size of the space
occupied by any
sample so one thing we can do alas I'll
have to get up a new demonstration one
thing we can do now that this guy's over
here we can switch the volume Tab and
watch how the volume occupied by that
error
point evolves as we solve the problem so
look what
happens this is of course randomly
generated I'm counting on this working
never failed
before
so it originally starts out is occupying
26% of the total
volume and ends up
occupying 1.4 * 10us 3% of the
volume so what tends to happen happen is
that these decision tree stumps tend to
wrap themselves so tightly around the
airor points there's no room for
overfitting because nothing else will
fit in that same volume so that's why I
think that this thing tends to produce
Solutions which don't overfit so in
conclusion this is Magic you always want
to use it it will work with any kind of
speed of classifiers you want and you
should understand it very thoroughly
because this if anything is useful in
the subject was in the in the dimension
of learning this is it for